Title: Music Dive: The Click by AJR
Date: April 18, 2023

Recently I've been feeling pretty down, being in the midst of a tough unemployment, plus the woes of having older pets with health issues. Feeling as overwhelmed as I have been, I've been getting back into music that I was really into when I was dealing with a depression back in 2017. I'm lucky in that I don't suffer from generalized anxiety and/or depression. As a result, when I do have depressive episodes, they are often caused by what's going on in my life at the time, and I look back at them as particular eras of my life.

In 2017, I had just moved across the country for a job that turned out to be horrible and toxic (my boss literally threw a chair once while I was there), and I had struggled to fit into the culture of that area and make friends. AJR had just released their album, *The Click*. I'm sure it's just the shared experience of younger generations, but this album hit a lot of points in my life dead-on.

When does The Good Part begin? Can I fast-forward? I'm Weak right now; I don't have the energy to do the healthy thing. I just want to enjoy something right now. But also I wish I could Sober Up and not just live for right now. But when you have so little going for you in life, it's easy to just focus on one single day at a time. My generation is so rarely afforded the luxury of planning for the future. We were all told that by now we should have great, steady jobs, and families or whatever. But we're still Turning Out. We're not even close to where we were told we should be.

*(If you don't see what I did there, I ranted about how I genuinely feel about where I was in life in 2017 and also where I'm at right now, but I slipped in a few song titles from the album.)*

So many of these songs had bits of lyrics that really hit hard (between things that didn't make sense to me too) but one of the biggest ones was "Netflix Trip." I have about nothing in common with the verse of that song, as I never watched *The Office* and just simply don't relate to a lot of the things mentioned in the verse. But the chorus, that one is so beautiful to me. Especially in a depression, when my brain is fighting back and forth, often telling me I'm not worth it. Maybe I'm in a toxic job because I deserve this. Maybe I'm unemployed because I have no skills. "Who are we to wonder where we're going? Who am I to tell me who I am?" This *works* as a counter-argument because it uses the premise of my self-loathing thoughts: I'm not good enough. If I think I'm not good enough, then "who am I to tell me who I am?" This line doesn't cure the depression, but it at least pauses the argument in my mind. And man, that goes a long way.

I'm gonna keep listening to this. Right now things aren't top notch, but this album gives me a lot of perspective, and I really want and need that right now.

Today I was listening to this as I was riding in the car with my friend, as we headed back from the grocery store. And The Good Part came on. I asked him, "If you died tomorrow, what would you say was the good part in your life, up until now?" As I gave my answer, I thought about what was missing from my life right now that keeps it from being similar to the good part. Mainly, it's stable employment. I just want security in my ability to feed myself and my pets. My friend agreed that likely the main thing to cure my depression this time around is going to be getting a job. I may feel like I've just come full circle back to where I was years ago, but truthfully I have done a lot of work on my life and I'm in a better spot in general now.

Right now I might feel like I want to "skip to the good part," but I remember how I felt after my 2017 depression. I remember it well. I never wanted to forget how it felt to be that depressed. One, for empathy when other people are going through it. But also to help color the rest of my life. There's something so peaceful now about being bored in life, which I hadn't understood before. Now I can recognize that kind of life boredom is not necessarily a bad thing. Sometimes it's just peace.

<iframe style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/album/2LyLlHg03okxUU3UVrKtSC?utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="352" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>